THE VX WARS
Chris Turner

Copyright 2022 Chris Turner
Cover Art: iStock
Published by Innersky Books

CONTENTS
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Starship Rogue

Chapter 1
“Cipher codes cracked, Cas. They’re on to us.”
First lieutenant Caspra’s eyes met Dell’s then roved to the
starboard display where the Aldebarax security vessel, a large
hexagonal hulk, honed in on their much smaller ship. The dull ache
returned to his left side where the hypodart had punctured his lung
on a faraway mission long ago. Now a flicker of doubt struck,
stronger than the pang of an old war wound.
“Waymaker XTC 101D, permission is denied. You are not
authorized to dock at Bay L. Stand by for boarding...” The robotic
voice from customs control echoed over the com.
The first lasers licked out at the starboard vane inches from the
thrusters, an implicit threat that it would be a stealth cannon that
next landed there.
“Jesus, Dell,” muttered Cas. “Get those ciphers back online.
What the hell is going on?”
“Useless, they’ve already targeted us—”
“But we might escape in a dog fight.”
“Are you kidding?” Jessen hissed. Her hand rose from the
com’s keypad and her violet eyes flashed in dismay.
Caspra knew she was right. This medical supply hulk was not
equipped for fancy evasive maneuvers. If the C1X4 security fighter
tractor-beamed them, they were done...and yet if they did not
fight....Well, if they did not fight they were dead, and if they didn’t
get Truce’s formula to the distribution base their mission would be
an utter failure.
He scratched at his raspy stubble. Damn. What god had dished
them this foul luck today?
His eyes swept the bridge. The XTC was from an older vintage
—oval in shape—an aging relic dawning from the pre supply-war
era...colored switches, manual sliders, old generation active LCD
displays. Twin viewports looked starboard and port while a main
scattersplay stared straight ahead. The XTC wasn’t the fastest
vessel with her four ion exchange engines but she was durable and
had good military-grade electro-shields. They covered every
square inch of her hide to handle the war zones she was made for.
Doc Truce had made maximum use of the ship’s computer. He was

now scanning the news transmission emanating from the bluegreen planet of Aldebarax sprawling below.
Truce stared, as if transfixed by some imaginary object in space.
His mercurial mind no doubt working some unsolvable problem.
“We have to get that serum down there, Cas.”
The scarfaced merc beside him, Dansig, spun his blaster at his
hip. Dressed in his merc gear, leathers and weapons, he sported a
graying ponytail, a 200 pound frame and high black boots. “Sure,
doc. All well and good, but how? Our codes are fucked and now
we’ve got Colonel Sanders breathing down our neck.” He didn’t
break a sweat. All was business to him.
Truce replied calmly, “We already know that the nanotech in the
serums works in conjunction with the reidentification process. We
sabotage it, we set back their plans, possibly years.”
Jessen shook her head. “I still don’t get this angle with the
nano.”
“The nanobots soften up the neurons. When the reidentification
officers apply their brainwave modulator clamps, it’s game over—
new identity. They’re pulling every stop they can to push this
agenda, manipulate every man, woman and child on the planet.”
Caspra eyed the key-codes Dell was frantically entering into the
console to repair the cipher. The plan was a bust if this last ditch
effort didn’t succeed.
How many had died to secure this freighter? Caspra winced,
recalling the many spy ops leading up to this last minute hijack and
the fake call for emergency medical supplies to be delivered to
Aldebarax distro unit outside the capital. It was war, and the reality
of war meant everyone’s hands had blood on them.
“This is commander Caspra,” he intoned. “Repeat, request
landing clearance to deliver an emergency Vx shipment. Repeat,
request landing permission.”
The com remained silent.
They were 100 miles above Aldebarax, a luminous world, like
earth, the most fertile of the four habitable planets that circled the
red giant.
“Here’s what we do.” Caspra stabbed a finger at the satellite
image of the depot Dell had brought up on the display. “We crash
through the gates of hell, right into the distro center.”
“Yeah, and when they open fire and blast us to shit, what then?”

“Shields up. Put every inch of auxiliary power into those damn
defenses. Dell, you navigate like a son of bitch through this
shitstorm. Jessen, you send mayday signals to all the authorities till
your voice is hoarse. Tell them we can’t control the ship’s nav.”
“Roger.” She swiveled in her seat, flicked switches on the com.
Through her headset she began the frantic relay process.
Under Dell’s skilled guidance, Waymaker veered down on a
sharp angle through the cloudy atmosphere of Aldebarax.
The first bombs punched off their stern, dull thuds, rocking the
silver hull and sending tremors through Capra’s lanky frame.
“Waymaker, stand down!” came a commanding voice through
the com. “This is Corporon Vox of command control, starship
Megaron.”
Caspra took in every detail of the hawklike face, the steely dark
eyes: of a man in his middle years whose jet black hair coved
down in a tight laurel formation over a skullish brow like some
tyrant ruler of old. “Our sensors show that you have full power and
that your nav system is intact, contrary to your claim. What are you
pulling?”
Caspra spoke, “Negative, Vox. This is lieutenant Caspra. Your
systems are in error. Our power is fluctuating like a compass in an
electrical storm. Sensors report an intricate system core failure.
Give us time to repair, along with emergency landing status.
Repeat. Allow us emergency clearance or we all die.”
Vox’s head shook in annoyance. “Nothing of the sort, Caspra.
You are in breach of landing protocol. You are not in jeopardy nor
are you who you say you are. Spies and thieves I would guess. The
cargo ledger indicates no authorization of any rush shipment.”
Caspra gave a silent curse. “I can’t hear you, Vox, you’re
breaking up.”
“Stand down, Caspra, I order you to—”
Caspra cut the channel. He winced, stroking his stubbly chin.
“Bastard. Let’s hope we can stall him and his friends for as long as
possible.”
“Doesn’t sound like he’s going to be stalled for too long,”
Dansig grumbled. “Do you know what you’re doing, Caspra?”
“No, but what the hell else are we going to do?”
Jessen stared deep into Caspra’s eyes, gripping his hand.
“Whatever happens...it’s us to the end, right?”

Caspra’s craggy cheeks cracked in a wolfish smile. “Sure, babe.
To the end.” He gave her fingers a squeeze.
“Promise?”
“I promise.”
He unclasped his fingers and eased himself into the seat beside
her as the ship hurtled down toward the distro center, ready to
smash through the roof. Shields may or may not absorb the impact,
he thought. If they didn’t, well—they’d never know the difference.
“They’re unlikely to shoot us down so close to ground,” he
muttered. “Why risk civilian death and collateral damage?” His
voice rose to a rumble over the din pounding at the hull.
“Famous last words,” Dell muttered. “Hey Truce, what the hell
are you doing over there? Playing video games?”
“See these new streetlights in the capital?” Truce motioned to
an image on his screen.
“Yeah, so?”
“Well, them and all the panels they’ve installed downtown are
all mind manipulation tech. The panels emit a low-frequency
hypnotic drone. Lulls people’s brains. Makes them more
susceptible to the propaganda. Same with the lights, some new
frequency penetrating the subconscious.”
“No way.”
“Look at these newscasts.” He brought up a waveform he’d
been dissecting on the computer. “A new subaural technology. As
if these broadcasts weren’t bad enough with their 24 hour rain of
propaganda. They interleave hidden messages in the audio and the
video feeds.”
“Serious?”
“Would I lie?”
Cas and Jessen exchanged glances.
“You don’t believe me? Listen.” He played back the waveform
he’d analyzed on the ship’s computer during the spaceflight from
Nebara. A soft feminine voice played in the background. “I filtered
out the news anchor’s voice.”
“OBEY YOUR MASTERS.
EVERYONE MUST HAVE THE UNIVERSAL VX.
IT IS FOR REIDENTIFICATION.
REIDENTIFICATION IS FOR THE GREATER GOOD.”

“They repeat this shit over and over again in the feed. Don’t be
fooled by the soft voice playing in the background. It’s
devastatingly effective and psychologically sound. As I said, I
filtered out the wave blockers and amplified the midrange
frequencies, otherwise the hidden messages are unnoticeable to the
average ear.”
“No shit?”
“Yes. And check out these images spliced in the video feed of
the latest newcast from Aldebarax City.” He flashed onscreen an
artist’s rendition of a man and woman, ordinary citizens, kneeling
before the governor, Beraxsus, their elected official, who had his
hand on either head, as if they were his pet hounds.
“Criminal,” Caspra hissed.
“Right, you can’t make this shit up. They insert these images
once every 80 frames, so they’re not detectable by the visible eye.
But the subconscious recognizes the flicker and processes it, thus
making the master-slave visual a reality in the viewer’s mind.”
“Hey, they’re sighting on us again,” Dell cried.
“Keep heading her down, Dell,” said Cas. “Shields will hold.”
Caspra resented Truce for redpilling everyone so ruthlessly. He
dropped truth bombs with practically every word he said, and yet
he was a genius. Without him, this movement would be at ground
zero.
“What was the original broadcast?” Cas asked.
“You really want to hear it?” Truce sighed. “Okay.”
“Reidentification is for the people. We take the worst criminals
and offenders and rewire them for society. Suppose a young
offender goes wrong and kills someone. We resocialize him with
another identity and save thousands of yols in prison fees. We urge
all citizens to take the universal Vx, to not only protect ourselves
from diseases but to have the serum in our veins to facilitate the
reidentification process should the need arise, for example, if any
citizen go against the path of the greater good…”
Caspra listened with growing resentment. The hypno drone in
the streets, the news media broadcasts laced with subaural and

subliminal messages, now the reidentification push, all part of a
big lie and tech takeover scheme to brainwash the masses.
“Their plan is more evil than it seems,” murmured Truce.
“What could be more evil than the complete zombification of
the human race?”
“Believe me, Dell, there are more evil things. I just don’t want
to make your day any darker than it is.”
A chill crawled over Caspra’s skin. No wonder so many
intelligent people had fallen for the government scam. Not that
there weren’t a bunch of corporate players involved too. When the
innocents clocked up so many hours of subliminal propaganda on
all the channels they became caught up in the mad spell to support
this reidentification program.
Truce seemed to read Caspra’s mind. “Right, how do you think
they pulled this off, Cas, got citizens to comply with their own
slavery?”
“You’re preaching to the choir,” Dell growled.
Caspra chewed his lip. He absorbed the new information with
care. How long before the state mandated basic reidentification?
For our own protection. What could go wrong?
Truce was legend. He’d developed the anti-nano serum in his
underground bunker lab. He’d been an insider at Texton, the
company that had produced the Vx. He’d turned rogue under the
new management when he saw what their agenda was.
Truce’d guide them through this nightmare.
As they angled toward the Aldebarax depot, lying ten miles
from the city, a blip came on the radar. “We’ve got company.”
Caspra turned to the main visual.
“Two more bogies tailing us,” Dansig spat.
“The more the merrier.”
“Looks as if we’ve become popular all of a sudden.” Dansig
polished his weapon.
As more bombs rolled off the fuselage, Dansig lifted his blaster
in disgust. “Shoot back at the bastards! They’re straining our
shields to the max.”
Dell reached for the controls.
“Hold off Dell,” Caspra said. “They’ll know we’re spies for
sure.”
“They already know we’re spies,” argued Dansig.

“Maybe, but let’s not make it easy for them. Why give them an
excuse to nuke us?”
Dansig threw his hands in the air. “Let’s all die then.”
“Truce, you have the serum?” Caspra demanded.
Truce patted his belly, wrapped in tubes filled with the nano
neutralizer under his gray uniform. “Dansig and I have it stashed
right here—ready to go.”
Caspra frowned. “Why so little?”
“Only need a small sample. We mix it with their main lot.
We’ve got backup in the hold—” he jerked his thumb toward sub
hatch B “—in case this little escapade goes sour.”
“Riding on hopium?”
“Hopium has won battles.”
Caspra turned back to the display. He didn’t like the
impenetrable look of the oncoming roof of the distro center.
Reinforced steel, possibly a mix of titanium. It’ll rip the ship to
shreds, he thought, considering the state of the battered shields.
“Backup plan. We’re not going through that roof, Dell. Change
course.”
“Where?”
“Slam her in beside that grey-cinder outbuilding there. It’s
about 200 feet from the main supplyhouse. That should give us
enough breathing room to infiltrate. Looks like a pre-distribution
depot. Make it look good, buddy. Keep this charade of a crashlanding going as best you can. It could buy us some precious
time.”
“Roger that.”
“Gear up,” he told Jessen and the others. He scanned his ship’s
crew with pride. Jessen, sandy-haired, freckles, slim and sexy, an
ace athlete who scored top in her class in swimming and triathlon.
She was busy donning her vest and tactical gear. Dansig checked
his twin energy blasters, strapping on a dozen extra cartridges.
Doc, blue-eyed, shaggy-haired, made a last minute scan of the
plans to the Vx depot. He looked like a mix between a mad
professor and a trucker. The small spectacles he wore on the end of
his nose were by no means meant to confuse or disarm people.
Dell, the stocky stallion with his dark, curled mustache and nobullshit demeanor, applied his razor concentration at the helm.

The ship careened through the cloud cover and skimmed onto
the tarmac, sliding on her belly a hundred feet in a shower of
sparks and steam—an extended show of dropping no landing gear.
The ship lay smoking beside the outbuilding. Caspra gripped
the handle to the side hatch and wrenched it open. “All out!”
A pop came and a hiss of air. Their boots landed on the tarmac.
Caspra set the detonator sequence on the hatch should anyone try
to enter the ship without the access code.
They crept round the back of the ship, weapons trained. They
kept to the space between the ship and the outbuilding’s wall.
Caspra edged them closer to the main depot. This was a gigantic
cube 80 feet high and several thousand feet long. So far no
greeting party.
Caspra thought this odd. He didn’t like surprises, but the roar of
Vox’s fighter coming closer through the parting clouds seemed
signal enough of an engagement.
Crouched behind the rear thrusters, he lifted two fingers. “Move
out. Faster we get inside this crate the better—”
Jessen gave a sharp cry. She shoved him back. “Watch your
back, lieutenant!” Her hand flew to her weapon, firing two quick
shots into the afternoon gloom. Dell followed with another volley.
Three indistinct shapes, a stone’s throw along the edge of the
supply depot, dropped in unison.
Caspra peered through his squinting eyes. He saw three snipers
garbed in dark khaki. Three figures of death.
“Saved your ass, didn’t I?” Jessen mumbled. “You owe me one,
lieutenant. Glad you brought me along?”
“Damn right.”
“Well, you can make it up to me in the bedroom. No cold
groping, or skimping on foreplay.”
“You’ve got it, babe.” He shook his head in mock resignation,
his lips curled in a sardonic grin.
He drew a lungful of air. Not much of a lungful here. The air
smelled of jet fuel out on the tarmac. The sky was a gunmetal
gray...the rosy light of the red giant peeked through a rent in the
ragged cloud, lending an eerie quality to the stark, military-like
environment. Aldebarax, Caspra knew, had been terraformed a
century ago: a most habitable planet given a breathable atmosphere

by the terraformers and a helping hand by the abundance of water,
aquatics and varied plant life.
Forklifts and magno-powered tankers sat parked alongside the
west end of the depot. A buzz of activity followed. Workers drifted
out from their posts, curious of the sudden crude landing,
scratching their heads to see what the fuss was about.
Before Caspra had a chance to admire the scenery, chunks of
bricks flew off the wall five feet away from where they crouched.
Dansig cursed. He wrung out his wrist which had been struck
by flying debris. “Snipers! Jesus. Get down!”
Snipers? Where the hell were they coming from? Caspra peered
left and right. “Make a run for that door along the side. Dansig,
Truce, I’ll cover you.”
“But you’ll get riddled—”
“For fuck sakes, Truce, get going!” He shoved him off across
the tarmac.
“Go with them, Jessen,” Caspra ordered.
“No way. I’ll stay with you.”
“No you won’t.” Caspra shook his head. It was futile. Jessen
was as stubborn as an ox.
Truce’s only chance was to neutralize the nanotech quickly. If
Caspra had to sacrifice himself holding off the cavalry, so be it…
And yet the crew. Caspra swallowed the phlegm in this throat.
Jessen said she was one month pregnant the other day. He couldn’t
bear the thought of her lying dead on the tarmac. He shoved the
ugly thought from his mind.
While Dansig blasted the knob off the nearby service door, Doc
shouldered the shattered frame aside and the two disappeared from
sight.
Caspra breathed a sigh of relief. God help them. Even as a faint
alarm sounded from within, he turned his attention back to the
situation at hand. Where the hell were those snipers? It was as if
they’d dropped from a magic—
The electro-net struck them without warning.
A spidery mesh dropped from seemingly nowhere, covering
Jessen, him and Dell in a stinging drape. The resilient threads
paralyzed them and knocked out their weapons. “What the fuck?”
Caspra struggled to regain his feet. He kicked and lashed out,
floundering like fish in a net while a dozen helmeted figures

rappelled down from the roof along the wall. They came sprinting
over, energy weapons trained on their struggling forms. Game
over. They seized their weapons, pulled off the net and hauled the
intruders to their feet.
Vox’s fighter came screeching overhead to land two stones’
throws away. Vox marched out of the hold with two of his officers.
He nodded at the efficient capture of the enemy. He ordered their
faces scanned and radioed in for identification. After studying each
of them in turn, he motioned troops and prisoners into the depot.
Busted. Caspra stared in miserable defeat from Jessen to Dell.
Stupid, how could he have been so careless? Two more fighters
flew on by. Verifying the situation was under control, they rocketed
back to base. Caspra only hoped that Dansig and Truce could get
that damn serum into the main batch—or their mission would have
been a complete failure.

Chapter 2
Inside the depot, the air was cold and dry, as if the overlords
were keeping the machines roaming about more comfortable...or
extending the shelf life of their nano Vx’s. A chill swept through
Caspra’s muscled shoulders. Not because of the air, but from the
sense of dark defeat settling in his bones.
Corporon Vox marched in lockstep with his henchmen. All bore
K2 sidearms and two-foot-long truncheons. They drew nearer the
detention block deeper in the compound. The prisoners shuffled in
a sullen line, kept under careful watch by the guards. Many robots
of all shapes and sizes scurried about their business, moving crates
or bundles of medical supplies from one area to another. Some
loomed 8 feet tall while others scurried along only 8 inches high,
like floorbound dachshunds. The majority were curious blocklike
shapes like Leggo toys, color-coded for identification with red
tops, blue bodies, and some with gray, green and yellow wheeled
bases. Black hydraulic cables snaked along their crude limbs,
seemingly able to move hundreds of pounds. Machine parts moved
in synchrony, robots swiveled 360 degrees on blocklike torsos.
The place was enormous, a vast manufacturing and Vx
distribution center, also a bit of a military headquarters or
command point, Caspra judged from the scattered personnel
dressed in khaki roaming about, supervising the endless bots and
attending to routine tasks.
The cathedral ceilings were gridded with dark-tinted steel
girders. The whole place was like a giant warehouse, some highlyefficient but secret hangar riddled with the endless echoes of
buzzing bots and pneumatic hiss of hydraulics of moving
machines. The place was ill-lit—a feature that pricked Caspra’s
suspicions. Inky darkness seemed to settle around the periphery
where he guessed the various research labs and storage bays
resided.
Three thugs of Vox’s choosing threw them into the detention
area, a forty-foot square room with bare white walls.
Vox made a great ceremony of pulling up a thronelike chair next
to a curious phonebooth-ish machine standing along a far wall. A
weird and disturbing human-like but robotic face perched on the

end of a heavy silver cable at the booth’s side. The cable seemed to
be infinitely flexible and to cover large distances.
“Welcome friends,” Vox greeted, with a winning smile, his arms
spread wide. “To the reidentification room we have come and here
we are with Amy. I hope you like your new surroundings, and your
new host.” He peered with sardonic mirth from face to face.
Caspra glared at him as if he were a nutcase. Amy? New host?
Who the hell was Amy? The reindentification booth stood like a
sinister shower stall. See-through glass panes framed two sides,
shiny metal framed the other two sides. A control station with
tubes, wires and monitor was set up at the other side of the
chamber from where the robot face leered.
“What is your preference?” it asked Vox. The pale, eyebrowless and androgynous face extended three feet along its stretchy
cable to face Vox and stare at him with unblinking eyes.
“Not now, Amy,” Vox replied crisply. “We have to brief our new
guests.”
“Of course, sir Vox.” The machine retracted back to a
respectable distance to a place by the thick glass. From mauveglazed eyes, it appeared to stare mindlessly at the prisoners.
Caspra glanced from Jessen to Dell, wondering if he were not in
some mad dream. Would he awake in the arms of Jessen in his
cabin?
Not today.
Vox studied the reports that came up on his communicator.
“Lieutenant James Caspra,” he mused. “Field agent for the
excommunicated border control, ex-elite guard, recruited for Vx
resistance the past two years. Known terrorist.”
“Terrorist by whose standards?” Caspra snapped. “Your shoddy
government’s? We all know who the ‘terrorists’ are, don’t we,
Vox?”
“Perhaps. But we all know who the victors are and who gets to
say who the terrorists are.” Vox’s eyes shifted to Jessen. “And here
we have the lovely Miss Reist. Daughter of Captain Rassan of
Nebara High Command. Worked with freedom movements
throughout the Aldebaran system. Supply chain liberator. Known
freedom fighter.”
“Flattery will get you nowhere,” she rasped.

Vox smiled, not even gracing Dell a glance. “Amy, show me
some compatible files for our guests.”
Amy perked up. Her face rose two feet. “10 Selections, Sir Vox.
Max Svelter, Machinist, 33...Amelia Crann, Infiltrator, Spy,
31...Giri Vasel, Bomb specialist, 28... Greg Sandurs—”
“That’s enough. Use the first three.”
“Compiling.” The machine seemed to process gigabytes of
information at once. Its dull mauve eyes fluttered shut then the
epicene face moved back to its perch a foot from the eerie metalglass chamber.
Vox stared thoughtfully at the three dissidents, their looks of
red-faced discontent. He addressed his first officer. “These three
will become part of our team to flush out the spies and traitors. A
fitting punishment for their treason.”
“But are they qualified?” the officer asked.
“They will be, lieutenant Brody, once the nanotech gets into
their brains. You should know that.”
Jessen spat on the floor, missing Vox’s boots by less than an
inch. “I despise you.”
The corporon seemed further amused by the harmless display of
animosity. “Pit them together, Brody. Caspra and Reist. Man and
wife. The irony is rich.”
The officer hesitated. “Is that advisable, sir? Even Amy would
agree that they are, after all—”
“Do not question my orders, Brody. Or would you like to start
washing floors in the detention block?”
Brody’s broad face flushed. “As you wish, sir. What about this
other one—Dell?”
“This man—” he waved a hand “—is a nobody. Roll the roulette
wheel. Reidentify him as whoever you please.”
Amy perked to attention. “Instructions recorded. Processing.” A
whirring started up in the control station attached to the booth with
its cluster of tubes and colored lights.
Jessen lashed out at the nearest guard with her steel-toed boot.
The thug grabbed her hair and threw her in a headlock, only to feel
her up and ogle her well-developed figure. Before he could secure
her arms, she jammed an elbow in his face.
His hand came away from his lip with blood on it. “Bitch!”

The corporon’s eyes flicked from her to Caspra. “It’s normal to
resist reidentification, but you two are pushing—”
“They’re trouble, sir,” cursed the guard, licking his bleeding lip.
“I say we kill them. Or at least have our fun with them—this brash
bitch in particular.”
Vox nodded. “Normally this would be my own thinking, but
other programs prevail. The commander wishes to further test the
reidentification process with various hard cases. Well, it seems as
if we have our ‘hard cases’ before our eyes.”
“You’re fucking nuts, Vox,” Caspra growled. “Go back to the
hole you came from.”
“Give him an extra dose of nano, Brody. And cancel the man
and wife thing. Ensure that they don’t know each other when they
come out of re-identification.”
“As you wish, sir.”
“No!” Jessen cried, struggling against her captors’ iron grip.
Vox shook his head in wonder. “I can hardly grasp this
saccharine display of loyalty. I shall enjoy seeing you two become
subservient minions to our cause.”
“In your dreams, Vox,” Caspra grunted.
There came a muffled explosion that rocked the west side of the
complex. Vox jumped nearly out of his skin. Caspra’s lips curled in
a leer as Vox shouted into his radio. He confirmed the deaths of
several of his men on the tarmac. He glared in abject fury. Seemed
as if his minions had paid a hefty price for trying to board the
XTC.
Dell and Jessen exchanged no less satisfied glances.
“I know your plan was to blow up the distribution center or
some similar insanity,” Vox said. “So where are your explosives?”
“Find them yourself,” sneered Caspra. “Expect us to do your
dirty work for you?”
Good. Let them stew over various conspiracy theories. More
chance for Truce and Dansig to complete their mission.
“They have other agents inside,” Brody griped. “Why are we
wasting time with them?”
“Because I said so,” snapped Vox. “They’re the key to this little
mystery and terrorist plot. They’ll regret the day they crossed me.”
“Back to terrorists again?” Jessen jeered.
“Shut up! Give them the Vx819. Start with the woman first.”

Amy bobbed closer on her cable. “Instructions noted.”
Two guards held Jessen down while another cable magically
snaked from Amy’s base aside the chamber. On the end of the
second cable projected a shiny hypodermic. At once the needle
stabbed forth, injecting her bare arm with a thick golden serum.
Jessen screamed. She lashed out at the two guards.
Fight! Caspra struggled to get to her. His and Dell’s muscles
rippled under the press of Vox’s goons. The guards outfitted Jessen
with a strange metal cap that fitted over her eyes and temples as
they shuttled her screaming into the freakish chamber. Caspra
roared his frustration as she smashed her fists against the glass.
Caspra jerked to a burning sensation in his arm: Amy pumping
him with an extra long syringe of yellow slime. A wave of nausea
hit him, followed by a pressure in his skull.
Caspra fought tooth and nail. His nearest oppressor smashed
him in the head with the butt of his weapon. Caspra’s vision swam,
milky images merging into a kaleidoscope blur of unrelated
sequences. He lost awareness of his immediate surroundings. Also
the events following. Those seconds that passed were from a lost
dream. Everything came and went in slow motion: the triumphant
grin on Vox’s face, the silver glint of the guards’ weapons, the
changing digits of the digital clock on the wall. Part of him awaited
the final zap to his brain that would reidentify him as another
human mind, part of him willed himself to break free and slaughter
everyone in the room.
No need for concentration camps for the unruly. The new way
for the government to deal with insurrectionists was to reidentify
them as good little citizens. The nanobots in the serum would see
to that, remapping the subject’s neural pathways to more desirable
personality traits. It was so insidious as to be scripted from an evil
cartoon.
Caspra felt his body yielding to the guards’ force as they shoved
him next into the chamber, outfitting his skull with a similar cap as
Jessen’s.
He opened his eyes, only to squint in amazement. He’d emerged
from the chamber to stare into Amy’s ogling eyes as she bobbed on
her cable. He was supposed to be a zombie, given a new identity
with no memory of his previous self. And yet, here he was Caspra,
the piss-and-vinegar rebel.

He’d been slated to emerge as Max Svelter—as Dell had
emerged as Giri Vasel, a stiff backed order-follower, saluting Vox
as he stood to attention aside Jessen—but Caspra did not feel like
any Max Svelter, machinist, 33—he felt like James Caspra, rebel
and leader of the hijack mission. What the blazes was going on?
He licked his lips, struck with a sudden hope. The procedure
must have messed up. The reidentification process, that extra dose,
had somehow backfired. Unless this was another trick of the gods?
No. He was James Caspra, second lieutenant to the late Captain
Marr.
No time for false hopes. He must not be found out. Vox and his
dogs would be watching very carefully, looking for any
abnormalities. They were tricky little bastards, these scumbags, but
he was trickier.
Dell and Jessen were not so lucky. Their eyes shone a dull
sheen. They seemed passive caricatures of their former selves. The
full horror of their transformation hit Caspra hard. The friends he’d
once known were gone...gone far away.
Vox admired his handiwork, nodding with appreciation. “A
merry crew—Mr. Dell, Caspra, Miss Jessen. How do you feel?”
The three stared back blankly at him.
“Good...Max, Amelia, Giri, you can relax. At ease.”
Dell and Jessen took places beside the other guards. Caspra
stepped in behind, spurred on to play the noisome part.
“Very good.” Vox clapped his hands. “I pronounce Phase 1
successful.”
Caspra’s mind worked overtime. Interesting. Very interesting.
No more a helpless prisoner, he began to formulate a plan.

Chapter 3
Truce and Dansig edged their way along the service wall before
a line of storage bins. They used a convoy of neck-high bots
carrying crates of RI819 reagent as cover. The bots were heading
to the distillation unit.
Truce had the general layout memorized and was glad that these
drones were helping out. His peer Dansig seemed fine to let him
lead. Dansig’s forte, he knew, was killing and Truce believed
there’d be plenty of that in the moments to come. He hoped there
wasn’t. The seconds passed like hours as they stole through the
semi-dimness. Truce mentally counted the paces to get to the
distillation center. Each step was a liability.
Dansig dropped back as more block-shaped bots joined the
convoy. He walked backwards acting as rearguard, weapon raised.
His feet stumbled over a rat-sized bot scurrying on some errand as
it weaved between the line of cargo drones. The thing flipped on its
side, gave a high-pitched squeak.
“Son of a bitch.” He regained his feet and lifted his blaster.
Doc hustled back and slapped the muzzle away. “You want to
alert security? What’s with you?”
“A few less bots roaming around this dump ain’t going hurt.
Piece of shit needs to get out of my way.” Dansig tucked his
weapon back in his belt.
Truce hissed, “The distillation unit is up there. We can use these
mindless bots to aid us. Think, man. We need to look unobtrusive,
look the part. Act normal.”
Dansig snorted. “You expect me to act normal?” He flashed
Truce a scowl as if to say there wasn’t a hope in hell that this
leatherbound, grey-haired burnout with cartridges spilling at his
belt could be any model of normality.
Doc frowned. If Dansig wasn’t such a fearless gunfighter, he’d
have wished for anybody else at his side. He stared critically at
Dansig’s grubby garb. “Should have outfitted you as some service
operator or maid.”
Dansig spat out a wad of tobacco. “Ain’t going to be no pansy
ass service operator.”

“Whatever. Just remember, these drones are our friends.”
“Goody good.”
Truce lifted a finger. “Pipe down, there may be sharp ears
around.”
“Doc, less gab and more locomotion. Those little legs of yours
ain’t taking any great strides.”
Doc held his tongue.
***
They came across a set of steel-barred doors at the end of Tjunction. A red warning sign glared menace with an X through
it...NANO RESEARCH LAB, REIDENTIFICCATION RIVX819. NO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONNEL.
Doc grimaced. He could only imagine the band of corrupt
scientists in there and their lab rat friends paid to engineer the
ghoulish serum know as RI-VX819. “Welcome to hell, Dansig,” he
muttered.
“Think I’ll come back and nuke this little place once we’re
finished our errand.”
“I’ll be joining you.”
They crept on, keeping to the ink-laced shadows cast by the
bots and watching their backs for roving personnel.
Truce was getting a bad feeling about this. Dansig seemed
oblivious, clutching his blaster as if he were Jesse James or some
war hero.
Or perhaps not so oblivious. “Watch out,” Dansig cried. The
merc’s arm shot up. He pegged a khaki-clad marine creeping up on
them. Dansig scrambled over to kick the man’s weapon away and
plug another energy shell in him.
“Jesus,” Truce hissed.
Thwunk. An energy ray glanced off Dansig’s midriff and sent
him spinning back.
“Dansig!” Truce ducked low. He saw another marine in a bentkneed crouch dogging toward them.
Dansig looked over, his face lined in a grimace. “Go!” he
wheezed. He held up a shaky hand, his blaster raised in a white
fist. “I’ll deal with these yobos.”
“You sure?”

With a grunt, Truce disappeared into the shadows. He made a
run for the distillation center, throwing all caution to the wind. He
did not look back, shuddering at the thought of what hell Dansig
was facing.
***
Dansig clutched his left side, feeling the wash of blood. The
glancing ray had clear passed through his leather and thin kevlar
into flesh and bone. Crikey. He was done. Been quite a ride. Hell,
all the gunfights, the free-for-alls, jetting around the galaxy in
stolen ships, the underground parties, the drugged-up women at the
orgies. He’d never have traded it for anything. Yet here he was,
with a smarmy piece of shit marine sprinting at him...a wedge in
between him and a few more years of sodden pleasures. Well, so it
was.
He held his hands up in an act of defeat, his blaster pointed to
the roof. “Come here, little monkey ass, let’s see what you got.”
“Stand down,” the guard ordered. “Drop your weapon. This is
your last chance. On your knees.”
“Hell no, chief. You got marbles for brains. I like standing.
Think I’ll die with my boots on.”
“Die then.”
Dansig pumped his weapon at the ceiling, guffawing. His face
showed a leer of brown teeth. His beady eye caught the garbage
chute that opened in the wall, six feet away. A dark maw to
nowhere...also a rattling din echoing from deep below. He’d take
as many of these clown bitches with him, starting with Ace here.
In the blink of eye, he drove his superior weight at the marine,
grappling him in a stiff bear hug. He launched himself into the
chute, oblivious to the energy shells ripping into his ribs. Down,
down he plunged with his enemy, like two demons from Sodom
and Gomorrah. They whirled in pitch darkness.
Dansig’s heart stopped beating before the shredder blades
mangled both their bodies.
***

The distillation center was thirty feet away. Truce huffed, not
used to sprints. He halted, panting before another set of steel doors,
curiously unlocked. Written in bold, the sign read,
‘DISTILLATION COMPLEX. PASS REQUIRED’.
Now came the tricky part.
He recalled the clearance codes he’d memorized. All good. Best
was just to abandon pretense and walk straight through.
He was not ten paces inside a high-ceilinged chamber when a
yellow light blinked on the wall to his right and a human-sized bot
with a solar panel-shaped body tractored over to intercept him.
“Stop! Security Alert. Sensors detect the non-presence of Vx819 in
your system. Please step over to Inoculation Bay 3.”
“There’s some mistake.”
“Refusal means instant Vx. Prepare for your inoculation.”
Truce gave a harsh chuckle. “Bug off, bot, you bother me.
Inspection agent here only. I have papers.”
The bot paid no heed. A clunky metal arm reached and grabbed
Truce’s wrist in a vice-like grip causing him to cry out. Another
extensible arm withdrew a syringe.
Truce lifted his blaster. He could hardly believe this was
happening. He jammed the muzzle at the bot’s faceplate.
Not before the syringe pricked him and emptied half its load
into his arm.
“Jesus fuck!” He blasted the crude head off. It powered down in
a hiss of steam and garbled noises. Truce pawed at his bicep,
throbbing from the injection like a son of bitch. “Fucking
shitheap.”
Damn. Just what he didn’t need right now. Now this nano shit
circling in his veins. He could administer the neutralizer, but he
was loath to waste time here peeling off his uniform and
unraveling the coils of tubes.
Truce gave a defiant shrug. He passed through the checkpoint
into the distillation room.
***
The place was huge. The air was cold. So cold his breath came
out in a faint gray cloud. He had to flex his fingers to keep warm.

To his ears came the monotonous drone of electric engines and
a central centrifuge chugging away.
Even his eyes widened at the scope of this macabre distillation
process. From a massive central centrifuge, a network of green and
yellow tubes passed along a curvy maze to transport liquid into an
equally massive collection vat buried somewhere in the floor. He
knew this carried the precious Vx819 formula.
On a raised metal platform 60 feet away stood three engineers
in white lab coats. They all wore hard hats. The men watched
graphs and figures and various sensor readouts as they rolled by on
a distribution monitor.
Truce gave the watchers wide berth, sneaking by without notice.
He passed about a hundred feet down to pause at a certain release
point midway down the maze of tubing. Here jutted an elbow in
the main green pipe. This connected to a necessary digital pressure
valve and sampling point.
Exactly what he was looking for. Just as he had envisaged,
outlined in the top-secret schematic he and the other rebels had
studied in their secret bunker on Nebara.
He punched the first digits into the keypad mounted aside the
sampling valve. He snatched a look back at the engineers. All were
busy with the readouts, but he ducked back in time as one looked
his way. He shielded himself behind the four-foot high mini power
station humming away nearby.
The engineers stared as a yellow blip, a code yellow, appeared
on the monitor not seconds after Truce had entered the first digits
on the keypad. One man motioned his neighbor to investigate.
There was a brief argument. The odd man out reluctantly traipsed
down the metal ladder. His bootfall clunked with ominous echoes.
Truce suppressed a curse. Dipping back behind the power node,
he waited. As the man walked over and saw the yellow light
flashing on the pressure valve, Truce nipped out and blasted him in
the chest.
The man fell in a soundless heap. Truce was loath to have the
technicians spy the man’s crumpled form so he dragged the body
behind the power station. A crude concealment, but it would have
to do.
Truce punched in the rest of the numbers. A green light
appeared above the keypad.

A 5-inch spout levered up from the console where samples
could be taken in or out, in his case, liquid to be poured into the
main flow.
Truce gave a savage grin. The codes were as good as gold.
Many brave agents had died to secure those precious codes and get
them to the rebels on Nebara.
Truce ripped off his shirt and unwound the rounds of tubing
about his torso. He unscrewed the plug at the end, siphoned
enough liquid for himself which he dripped into a small glass vial
he carried on him.
He attached the tube’s end to the sampling spout, upended the
tube and began draining the contents. He darted anxious glances
left and right.
The seconds ticked by maddeningly slow. When the last drop
had been emptied, he clicked the END button on the keypad. A
small beep sounded. The spout retracted back into the console. He
rewrapped the tubing round his waist and donned his uniform,
leaving no trace of his handiwork. A smile curled on his lips. That
should put a damper on the thousands of gallons of demon serum
collecting in the vat.
An alarm sounded faintly from the checkpoint. Should he be
worried? Maybe Caspra or Dansig gotten themselves ensnarled in
a viper’s nest? No matter. He had his blaster and his brains. As
long as he could slip out of this sinister place, all would be in
order. The engineers would never know their serum had been
tampered with. The neutralizer was undetectable once it had been
diluted in the main mix.
A whirring echoed to his left. He ducked back. More bots.
They’d gathered to investigate the demise of their security drone
peer.
He gripped his blaster with itchy fingers. Time to get the hell
out of here. He downed a few drops of the nano neutralizer from
the vial and snuck toward the checkpoint.
Time for the fun to begin.

Chapter 4
Vox stood before the small column of seven recruits he’d
chosen for the mission. “Our goal,” he said tersely, “is to find those
who have to come to disrupt our operations.” He motioned a hand.
“Max, Giri, Amelia—consider this a training mission.”
Dell and Jessen gave solemn acknowledgment and Caspra even
saluted as a fitting touch.
Back into the main hangar the troupe marched.
Service bots roved about like gnats. The flutter of motion
became distracting to the eye. Everywhere the clink of metal on
metal as cargo bots lifted crates, containers, skids of medical
equipment and supplies. The hiss of hydraulics echoed the
movements of block-like limbs, while bells, lights and whistle
signals served as cues for the bots to move cargo in synchrony or
along certain routes marked with dotted yellow lines. It seemed the
masters of the depot manufactured special medi-bots here, like the
charming Amy and who knew what other horrors. Such explained
the constant hustle and bustle.
Caspra drew back from his small column in stride with Jessen—
Jessen, aka Amelia Crann, an anonymous agent of the state.
“Pzt, Jessen.” Caspra remembered their mad, passionate love in
their cramped cabin aboard the XTC. Their embraces had been
intense, but tender.
He squeezed her hand, willed her to remember her soul
connection. “Jessen, it’s me, Caspra. Say something.” His voice
came as a hoarse croak. “Do you remem—?”
For an instant, their eyes met, her pupils dilated, a spark of the
old violet tinkle there, but Jessen’s spirit was tucked away deep in
some dusty corridor. Those eyes flared—for a moment, only to
blink out and be replaced by the grey vacant look of the nanotech
NPC who was now Amelia Crann.
Jessen drew her hand away from his and the beginnings of a
frown curdled her delicate features.
Caspra gritted his teeth. He had to look away in anger and
dismay, squeezing the wetness out of his eyes.
He vowed if he ever escaped this ratbox of a prison all these
motherfuckers who’d done this to her and everyone else would
pay. They’d all pay in buckets of blood.

Vox snapped a command a jolted Caspra out of his reverie. The
corporon strode back and slapped him on the shoulder. Gimlet eyes
glared. “Soldier, you dawdle.” Face six inches from Caspra’s, he
barked, “Who are you?”
“I am private Max Svelter of Aldebarax Command, ID
8504321.”
“What is your mission?”
“To root out insurgents, bring all dissidents to detention Bay.”
Vox rubbed his chin. “I am keeping my eye on you, Max.
Something is not right with you. If you disappoint me, things will
not go well. Do you understand?”
“Yes, sir!”
Caspra grimaced. Fucking bastard, I’ll corn cob your ass the
first chance I get. Caspra concealed his rage and fell in behind
Jessen. He resumed his brainless march in auto zombie mode.
Brody dropped back to hand Caspra his energy weapon, a sleek
K2 sidearm with dual valence action. Caspra could have jumped
for joy.
But Vox perhaps had clued into an overarching hidden danger
signal. He stuck forth a hand and intercepted the weapon. “You’re
on probation, soldier, so I’m giving you a truncheon. Brody, give
him your club.”
Brody reluctantly handed over his two-foot billy club.
Vox halted the crew in the center of the compound. His hawk
eyes glared at the many bots running hither and yon upon their
endless errands.
“This is going to be cumbersome. Too much activity. You three
—” he motioned to Max, Giri and Amelia “—foot it over to Bay 5.
On the double. Report back here at 15 hundred.”
“Yes, sir!” the three chorused with matching salutes.
Vox seemed to pause with narrowed eyes at the barelyconcealed insolence of Max’s brief hand gesture.
Caspra did not care. He marched on dutifully with the others
away from tyrant Vox and his crew into the press of the bots. He
resumed his earlier subservience. He did well not to engage his
peers, though he was dying to shake them like a dog would in his
teeth to wake them up from their idiotic stupor. It would be useless
he knew. They seemed beyond repair. He steered Jessen and Dell

toward the distillation center, all the more chance to catch up with
Truce.
***
It was not long before the three came across a skulking shape, a
lone figure hunched in the shadows of fifty crates marked Lot
#6546 RI-VX819. The figure seemed to stay clear of any human
traffic and used the bots as cover.
“Hey.” The croak was of a familiar voice.
The doctor, eyes haunted and face beaded with sweat, stumbled
groggily over. His trembling fingers clutched his weapon. His
hands were scratched and bruised as if he’d been in a vicious fight.
“Jessen, Dell, Caspra.” His bleary eyes darted left and right. “So
glad to see you. Been to hell and back, but I got the serums in. The
main supply is just over th—”
Caspra’s intense glance failed to warn him in time.
Dell and Jessen circled Truce. Dell grabbed the doctor from
behind in an arm lock as Jessen snatched away his energy weapon.
“Hey, what the fuck are you doing?” Truce’s face was one of
apprehension as he realized his mistake. “You’re not Dell—or
Jessen. You’re fucking nano zombies!”
Caspra came up behind Dell and grabbed him in a choke hold.
He pressed a certain nerve near the carotid artery and Dell
slumped. Jessen reached for her weapon but Caspra slapped it
away and kicked the feet from under her. He caught her as she
came down hard on her left side. He flipped her over and booted
the weapon away from her grasp. He had his knee on her back to
keep her face down. Shit, she was strong. A quick finger press to
her neck and her struggling ceased.
Caspra acted instinctively. He gained his feet as if nothing had
happened, dragging the two into the shadows.
Truce blinked in bewilderment. Caspra’s breath came in a raspy
gasp. Feeling a lump in his throat, he glowered at Truce, then
turned his attention to Jessen’s immobile form at his feet. Things
had gone to shit, again.
“Caspra, is it you?” Truce wheezed.
“Yeah, it’s me, old buddy. Where’s Dansig?”
“Didn’t make it.”

“Shit.” Caspra’s heart dropped like a stone. He thrust the ill
news out of his mind. A sudden idea gripped him. “You have any
of the neutralizer left?”
Truce thrust a small vial into Caspra’s palm. “What happened to
you guys?”
Caspra opened the vial. With a grunt he knelt to jam some drops
between Jessen’s half parted lips. “How much do they need?”
“Anything from three to ten drops. Why? Doesn’t take much.”
“How long before it sets in?”
“Anything from a few minutes to a few hours.” Truce scowled.
“I’m sure I’ve told you this before. Tell me what the fuck is going
on.”
“They reindentified us, can’t you see? Dell and Jessen are gone,
but my reidentification failed. I just hope to hell this shit works.”
He turned his attention once more to Jessen.
He peeled back Dell’s lips and dripped some liquid between his
teeth. Caspra’s hands were trembling.
“What about the vial?” asked Truce.
“Take off. Get the fuck out of here. The ship’s gone, we’re on
our own. I’ll keep the vial. You’re a hero, Truce for what you did
back there, but you’ll have to foot it on your own. Remember, if
you’re caught with this stuff—”
“Whether I’m caught with it or without it, won’t matter.” Truce
hobbled off, muttering in sudden understanding of the direness of
his plight. Caspra knew from the doctor’s phlegmatic expression
that he’d done what he could to accomplish the impossible. He
probably didn’t give a rat’s ass whether he lived or died. God help
him. When a squad of Vox’s troopers caught up with him...Well,
he’d stall them for as long as he could.
Caspra was gripped with a new worry. If the neutralizer didn’t
kick in quick enough, when Jessen came to, she’d tell Vox all
that’d happened and he’d be exposed. He chewed his lip. A mess,
either way.
The clatter of bootheels rang on concrete from down the bay.
Trouble. Caspra ducked back. A squad of Vox’s thugs coming
through.
The corporon stormed over with Brody in lockstep. “What the
fuck’s going on here, Svelter? You playing tiddlywinks with us
again?” He stared at the slumped forms of his recruits.

“We were waylaid. Agents of the freighter,” Caspra said in a
lame voice. He lifted a lazy finger in a vague direction down the
depot.
“Where are these fucks?”
“Escaped.”
Vox’s frame shook. “You allowed them? You bloody moron.”
He clenched his fingers into a fist. “Get these useless twits back to
a medical station—” he waved a hand at his minions. “And you,
Svelter...Max, Max—” he smiled as if playing good cop bad cop.
He pinched both of Caspra’s cheeks in his iron fingers— “you’re a
dumbass and you’re coming with me...There’s something funny
about you. I want you to be there when your friends wake up.”
Of course you do, you skank motherfucker piece of shit.
Caspra’s eyes were dead pools into nowhere. His mind remained
alert despite the fact they’d pumped nano into him. He’d await his
chance to plunge the knife into Vox’s guts.
“Where did these ‘rebels’ go?” Vox demanded in a harsh voice.
“Saw them bug off down there toward the machine exchange.
Dressed in gray khaki space uniforms. Slightly grayer masks
pulled over their muzzles.”
“They have weapons?”
“Energy darts.”
“What, and you didn’t think to chase after them?”
“No sir, my first priority was Cann and Vasel.”
“How very noble of you.” Vox stared at Caspra with sour wrath.
After thinking for some time, he loosed a ragged curse. “Gaspar,
Brody...we root out these rebels once and for all. Let’s move out.”
The grim troupe legged it toward the crane and lifts parked in
the machine exchange.
Caspra considered. Easy enough just to go kamikaze and brain
as many of these fuckers as he could before he got cut down in a
blaze of energy fire. Good one, Caspra. End up dead and no one
avenged. But even that was out of the question. Vox was no
dummy. He had put a big motherfucker of a guard to watchdog
him with a D6 gauge energy repeater. The guy wasn’t bluffing.
***

Sure enough, the troupe caught up with a flushed-faced Truce.
He was hidden behind some massive dumpsters in the recycling
hub by Supply Bay 6.
Vox and his men dragged Truce out, cussing and fuming. Two
kittycornered him on either side. They disarmed him, scanned his
facial through their recognition system and waited for the result
from mission control.
“So, the famous Dr. Truce,” Vox murmured. “A pity we meet
under such pressing circumstances.”
Truce stood in a stubborn crouch. He didn’t bother to dignify
Vox with a response.
“Don’t you recognize your ally?” Vox motioned to Caspra.
“Your boy’s one of us now. Admit it, you’re beat, Truce. Tell us
what you’re doing here, who you’re working for and what your
mission is.”
Truce stared defiantly. Vox gave a patient laugh. He snatched a
crafty look from Caspra to Truce.
Caspra did his best to play the part of obedient robot, but he
could feel the charade crumbling at the seams.
Vox motioned. “Max, you do us the honors. Ask your comrade
where his accomplices are and the nature of his mission. If he
refuses, take your truncheon and beat the hell out of first one knee
then the other.”
Caspra gave a strangled acknowledgment. He took two wooden
strides forward. What now? Another impossible situation. If he
complied, he was a murderer. If he didn’t, he was dead. He gripped
the black baton in a whitening fist. He either busted up his friend
or they shot them both on the spot.
“Do it, Max,” Vox grated. “Now.”
Caspra’s handler, the big man, raised his double gauge to Max’s
head.
Caspra’s dry lips uttered a hoarse grunt. “Truce, you refuse to
tell us what your mission is?” He hoped he was giving his friend
enough signal to show that he wouldn’t hobble him, or would at
least make this exercise as painless as possible. But from the look
of Truce’s haunted expression, Truce didn’t look as if he was
getting or reading much, the cornered animal he was.
Caspra’s fingers clutched the truncheon as he raised it to strike.
On a sudden quixotic impulse he chucked the weapon at Vox,

dropping low on his heels in one quick movement. The thunk of
metal smacked the brow of the guard at Vox’s left. The rebound
caught Vox on his shoulder. Vox gave a cursing cry and jumped
aside. He narrowly missed a stray blast from Gaspar’s weapon.
Successive crossfire took two goons out at Vox’s right.
Truce was cut down in a shower of energy spray.
Caspra threw himself sideways. A single blast glanced off his
shin, leaving a burn mark that seared through his blue kevlar. He
roared in anguish at the wound that stung like a bastard. He
scrambled to safety behind a nearby stack of medical crates, the
thick black inkmarked LOT #11a5 right in his face.
Caspra bit back the pain. He suppressed a choking cry. He
snatched up the gleaming weapon of the brained guard and rolled
for cover. Even now Vox, the coward, was scrambling from the
scene, radioing ahead, leaving his the last remaining handler, the
big brute of a man, to mop up the mess.
No such luck.
Caspra pegged him in the guts before he could aim his weapon.
Two hundred pounds of muscle slumped in a lifeless heap at his
feet.

Chapter 5
Caspra’s brain was not functioning nearly as fast as it should.
Pain did that to one. He hobbled as best he could away from the
piles of bodies. What a fuckup. Their ship, destroyed. Truce, dead.
Dansig, dead. Jessen, Dell, may as well be dead...For them to
recover from their robotic stupor a miracle would be needed. He
had to help them! But how?
Feeling powerless, he hobbled toward the crisscrossing of
cooling pipes by the far wall. Why, he did not know. Better than
standing here vulnerable in the open. He winced with every step,
keeping to the cover of what little shadows lingered, cast by the
crates angled under the white fluorescent lamps glaring down from
the ceiling.
Again, he shook the dizziness out of his head. That damn
injection. For a second his vision blurred. His legs faltered. He saw
double. Double bots, scurrying underfoot like monster mice out of
bad trip. Was he hallucinating?
Whatever nano shit they’d pumped into him was starting to
mess up his brain. How long before the biotech found its way to
the most critical neurons? Would he become Max Svelter?
Screw that. He should have taken that neutralizer back when
he’d lip-fed it to Jessen. Speaking of which....he snatched at the
vial and swigged eight drops. He grimaced at its bitter taste.
Staggering some more, Caspra massaged his temples as a
sudden grating voice jumped out at him.
“Halt right there.”
Caspra rolled his eyes. He froze in midstep. One of the three
stormtroopers descended on him like a wolf and snatched the
energy weapon from his grasp.
“Move out, scum. Or you’re dead. On your knees.”
Two straddled him at either side and jammed a muzzle into his
ribs. They held his arms behind his back. The clink of shackles
cuffing his wrists, a sign these mutts were not taking any chances.
Caspra’s heart sank as they frogmarched him back to the
reindentification center. Why there?
They shoved him shamelessly through the door then followed at
his heels into the white antiseptic room where Vox and five more

of his troopers held conference. Jessen and Dell lay in heaps to the
side.
Vox gave a crisp inclination of head. “Took you bums long
enough. Put this weasel over there with the others.” Vox flicked a
bandaged hand over to where Jessen and Dell were groggily
coming to. Obviously Vox’s new wound was courtesy of his being
caught in the crossfire.
“Now,” Vox rasped as he nursed his injured wrist, “we get to the
bottom of this farce.”
Except it wasn’t the same zombies that Caspra had left back in
the depot...Jessen and Dell rubbed neck and shoulders and had a
light in their eyes which was all too human.
“You—” Vox pointed at Jessen. “Who are you?”
“Agent Amelia Crann, infiltrator, spy, ID 8408765.”
“Good. Park yourself over here. Explain what happened.”
On cue, Jessen tripped over, a silent understanding passing
between her and Cas. Dell rose to accompany her, but Vox
motioned him back savagely. “Not you, her.”
Jessen pretended obedience, but when she was within striking
distance, she lashed out, clawing at Vox’s face as would a feral cat.
“No!” Caspra cried.
Jessen evaded the first blast, but the second clipped her in the
chest, sent her spinning sideways.
Dell front-kicked the closest guard in the face, knocking out his
front teeth, then swiveled to hammer a fist into the guard next to
him. Nose and bone pushed into brain, killing him instantly.
Jessen fell, a gaping gash in the left side of her body.
Caspra wheeled, his world gone mental. His knee connected
with the groin of the nearest man and slammed him to the ground.
He snatched at the falling guard’s weapon. Rolling free, Caspra let
out a cry and a torrent of blasts he did not remember firing. Four
bodies tumbled to the ground in smoky heaps. Dead bodies lay
slumped all around him. Dell kicked the weapon out of the
flummoxed Vox’s hand. A savage blow sent Vox reeling into the
reidentification chamber. Dell slammed the door. The autolock
mechanism clicked.
Caspra regained his feet. Blaster lay clutched in bone-white
fingers. He stood in the harsh light panting like some unrequited
frozen avatar, a man dispossessed. His eyes stared at Jessen’s

lifeless body. Her sandy hair was swept over one side of her face,
eyes slightly ajar, lips parted in the same innocent configuration as
when he’d given her the neutralizer-serum not long ago.
But she was stone dead, so was his unborn child.
Caspra’s wrath turned to corporon Vox who stood slapping his
palms on the glass.
The robot face of Amy, sensing a shift in command, arched
forward 6 feet into the air on her flexible cable. From the end of
the other cable, she produced a shiny energy weapon which trained
directly at Cas’s head. “Amy, at your service,” she said in a highpitched voice. “Why have you secured Sir Vox in the RE-ID
chamber? He has already been reidentified, don’t you know?
Multiple procedures risk permanent neural imprint.”
Amy’s hostile stance sent a dozen questions echoing through
Cas’s brain. He looked quickly from the throne-like chair to the
psycho AI to the reidentification chamber. It suddenly dawned on
him...whoever sat in the chair controlled Amy.
He threw himself into the throne and assumed a commanding
position. “Stand down, Amy!” His eyes levelled her a cool stare.
Reluctantly she lowered her weapon. Her pale face dipped three
feet to face his own. The aggressive blaster retracted back into its
gleaming cable.
“Has Vox been administered Vx819?” Caspra demanded.
“Affirmative.”
“Let the reidentification process begin.”
“Impossible. Enter access code to initiate reidentification.
Failure to comply will result in severe—”
Dell shot the AI in a fit of rage and the robot face slumped in a
charred heap. With a lurid curse Dell wiped his weapon on his
shirt. “Been wanting to do that ever since I laid eyes on the
motherfucker.”
Caspra didn’t hear, his mind was a thousand miles away.
He staggered from the chair and knelt aside Jessen. His right
hand faltered briefly but he closed her eyes, caressed her once-rosy
cheeks. A moan escaped his throat. His was a world of misery, a
private vista into hell.
Dell laid a hand on his shoulder. “We have to beeline it, buddy.
Vox’s bully boys’ll be here soon. Live another day, Cas, avenge
her.”

Cas came out of his reverie. His face and lips twisted in savage
grief. There would be blood to pay…
Seeing Dell’s troubled look, he answered his friend’s unasked
questions. “Dansig’s dead, so is Truce.”
“Fuck.”
Caspra forced his eyes away from her. “Dell, we have the
advantage. They don’t know we’re un-reidentified.”
“Yeah.” Dell nodded mechanically, still processing the
information.
“If I do anything from this point on,” Cas vowed, his teeth
bared, “it will be for her—for all of them.”
Dell clasped him on the back. “Then let’s do it, buddy!” He
glanced down at the burn mark through Cas’s blue leggings. “You
up for this shit?”
“Yeah, I’ll survive.”
Now that Amy was incapacitated, the chamber’s control
terminal was operational. Caspra spun the dial to the
reidentification setting, the ‘roulette wheel’ as Vox liked to call it.
The display pulled up many possibilities: Corporon in
training...Weapons’ expert... Demolition specialist...Pilot...
Here was one persona: Loretta Stiles, waitress at the Big Zap in
downtown Aldebarax. A fitting match for Vox’s new station in life.
Caspra manually fired the reidentification sequence. With his
boots crunching on what remained of Amy’s robotic face, teethgritted, he hoped the corporon liked his new man-body. Caspra’s
lips peeled back in saturnine mirth as he watched Vox slap his
palms on the glass in renewed frenzy. The corporon put his hands
to his flushed cheeks and sank to his knees, crying out in a highpitched, almost girlish voice. Obviously poor Vox was having a
panic attack. Pity.
Caspra snatched himself to attention. He must not allow himself
to indulge overlong in vindictive fantasies.
“Let’s get the fuck out of here.”
“We should kill this son of a bitch.”
Caspra shook his head. He blasted the control terminal and its
associated circuitry, ensuring there would be no more
reidentification from the unit. “Let him live as Loretta. Let’s get
out of here.”

***
They legged it to the far end of the depot. Winded, the two
rebels stood staring out from the wide bay onto the depot’s tarmac.
They breathed the first hints of fresh air since they’d been penned
in this shithole.
A compact X16 lightfighter was parked outside about 80 feet
from where they stood. The hold was open. A low ramp allowed
access to both crew and bots, carting supplies from what Caspra
could see. From the sign of bustle of activity and the X16’s dull
engine roar, it seemed to be gearing up for a quick haul to
Aldebarax City.
Caspra motioned Dell with his elbow. “There’s our ride out of
here.”
“You mean stowaway?”
“No. Here—redirect that low-level supply bot our way and
follow my lead.”
Dell grinned in anticipation. He hurried over and punched some
buttons on the utility bot’s faceplate. The machine, shaped like an
upright Leggo caricature, beeped a couple times then flashed some
colored lights before rolling jerkily on its tractor tread after Dell.
The two strode boldly across the tarmac. Gaining the service
ramp, they hopped into the X16’s hold without challenge. The
shoulder-high utility bot carting the tools and cleaning supplies
after them, beeped.
An officer inspecting the midships gauges looked up from his
work in surprise.
“Maintenance crew,” Caspra explained. He ignored the man’s
frowning look.
“Never heard of any maintenance check scheduled pre-flight.”
The man peered at his com. “I’ll have to check with Captain
Merisan—”
“You have now.” Dell shot him between the eyes. The officer
slumped in a slack heap. “Check complete.”
Cas and Dell upped their pace. They sprinted down the metal
grating of the midships companionway, leaving behind the
bewildered bot.
Gaining the bridge, Caspra shot the crewmen on sight. The three
slumped in their seats, lifeless puppets, agents of the state no more.

Caspra gained the com. He flicked two switches, readied the
craft for liftoff.
The AI voice droned from the control tower, “XT16, you are not
cleared for takeoff.”
“Fuck that.” Dell parked himself at the helm. He slammed the
thrusters to max. The hatch snapped shut. The ramp fell away in
tangled shreds.
Rising into the muggy air, the V-shaped craft opened fire on the
control tower, shearing off an oblong slab which smashed onto the
tarmac in a fiery heap. Dell guided the ship low over the distro
depot. Caspra cursed every inch of the shithole’s very existence,
his hand stabbing at the weapons’ control that ripped a gaping hole
in the roof.
Satisfied that these brief moments of carnage had done some
damage, he ordered Dell to point the nose skyward. The X16
coursed through the clouds, leaving behind any pursuit of enemy
fighters. Dell and he charted a course past Aldebarax’s moon.
Caspra did a mental review. Five had gone down to Aldebarax.
Two had escaped. And the fight was only beginning…
***
Stealing the ship from the depot had been easy work compared
to the hell they’d been through in the past hours. Now, speeding
through the ionosphere, they were getting the hell away from
Aldebarax as fast as they could.
Caspra dipped his head on his chest. He took a slow deep
breath. They dragged the corpses of the crew to the trash chute,
jettisoning them gratefully into space.
Dell’s jaw worked. His voice came as a croaking rasp, “Cas—I
thank you for what you did down there. If you hadn’t gotten that
serum into me and Jessen and came back to—”
“Forget it, Dell. Thank Truce as much as me. He paid with his
life for us sitting here now.”
Dell looked away. His Adam’s apple bobbed as he slowly
swallowed the unhideable truth that they should all be dead. “Well
—here’s to Truce, and Dansig and Jessen.” He and Caspra shared a
toast of old cognac, courtesy of the dead captain’s stash which they
found under the weapons console.

After a time, Caspra glanced at him curiously. “So what was it
like being reidentified? You remember anything?”
Dell’s features twisted in a pained grimace. “It was like a
prison, Cas, I tell you..a bloody mind cage being Giri all that time.
Part of me knew I was alive, but living a lie. Stuck in this cage of
another person. Like a 5-year old kid, gripping bars and looking
out through helpless eyes.” He shuddered, downed another
mouthful of cognac. “Funny thing, I knew what I was doing.
Looking through the same eyes and saying yes, sir, no sir and part
of me was on autopilot, living this bullshit alternate reality of
someone I had no connection with. The scary thing was I had no
choice, Cas. I can barely remember all the things I said and did. It
was too creepy.”
“Forget it, Dell, it’s over.” Even as he said the words, Caspra
had to force back the tremor in his voice, to cover the dry sob in
his throat as he remembered Jessen’s soft touch, her innocent smile
and passionate embrace, her feisty ways. She was too young to die.
Why the fuck did it have to be her?
Caspra’s own devil’s advocate spoke like a wise gnome on his
shoulder. Because the universe plays games with us all. We play
these roles. We never ask for them. Roles we have no choice in
declining... The voice whispered more words in his ear he did not
want to hear: Nothing is ever fair, Caspra. Suck it up and get on
with your life. Do it for her!
Caspra wiped his stinging eyes. He willed himself to focus on a
plan to thwart the next phase of the reindentification agenda.
Dell shook his head. “Amazing what a bit of nanotech can do.”
“Dell.”
“Okay. I’m zipping it.”
***
The latest news transmission from Aldebarax crackled over the
com,
“Citizens, let us reimagine a world where there is no crime, no
prisons or disease. Vx819 and Reidentification is the way to
liberation. Already Vx centers are being installed throughout
Aldebarax City and the outlying areas. Support our cause. Assist

our efforts in reeducating those who would use violent means
against us. Let us follow the path of greater good…”
Dell killed the channel. Caspra tempered his rage with the
knowledge that their mission had succeeded. What a surprise the
overlords would get when their reindentification chambers failed
and their quotas of zombies plummeted. But how long could the
nano neutralizer last? Caspra did not know. He only knew that the
mandates were rolling through like tanks.
And how long before the state mandated basic reidentification
for everyone, not just dissidents and ‘criminals’?

Chapter 6
The four planets in the Aldebaran system suffered the same
tyrannical governance that ushered in the reidentification process
and a new martial law.
The powers-that-be tried to shut down the Aldebarax power grid
on its citizens—a threat to end the small siege of ships that the few
freedom fighters had assembled to surround the security grid in
near space.
Brainwashing, propaganda. Caspra glared with contempt at the
corrupt leaders whose faces and pious rhetoric flooded the
newscasts and the lies they promulgated to the public.
“Dell, send out the word. Mayday to all available craft. To lay
siege to this planet.”
“Aye, I’m trying, Cas. But I think they’re blocking us, jamming
our signals.”
“Keep trying, buddy. For shit sakes, what they won’t stoop to.”
Caspra slammed his fist on the console. “Where’s Doc when we
need him? Sorry to blaspheme the dead, old friend.”
Dell gave a commiserating grunt. He sent messages and cries
for help to the free worlds all over Aldebaran—Nebara, Perseus II,
Verus—encouraging them to join a ‘convoy’. As many ships as
could be assembled.
The government of Aldebarax was adamant. If the ragtag fleet
would go away, give up this crusade, the power would be turned
back on.
The people of Aldebarax responded with a feral roar—one that
echoed far and wide from the masses gathered below. “Shut down
the power, we don’t care.” Millions gathered before the city
parliament and state buildings, the seat of the ruling class and the
puppet power structure.
But others defended the government mandates. The
Aldebaraxians apparently were that much under mind control—no
small help from the subliminals interleaved in mainstream media,
the hypno drones and flickering streetlights installed throughout
every city.
Civil war...people fighting in the streets of the capital, people
for and those against the reidentification process.

Vox’s successor, Zaer, gloated through the vidcom at Caspra and
Dell’s efforts in their getaway craft. “You thieves will be
apprehended and hung in public. You haven’t enough ships or
support from the people you fight for. Give yourself up. Face the
charges of treason. You can’t drift out in space forever.”
Caspra stared back at the corporon. “Maybe, Zaer. But we are
clearly dead either way, so we may as well fight.”
The new corporon shrugged. “As you wish.” He closed the
channel.
The fight was far from over. Caspra blinked in choked surprise
as he took in the sudden massive sweep of ships amassing on the
radar. Blips uncountable. Thousands of them approaching from
nearby Nebara, Perseus...5000? His cry and other’s had been
answered...a massive convoy of vessels of all sizes and shapes—
from tramp steamers to merc vessels to mini armadas, salvage
craft, private yachts and chartered ships. A joyful cry rumbled deep
in Caspra’s throat. They’d had enough and were joining their
brethren in arms from the distant worlds.
***
The royal flagships from Aldebarax came on like a school of
ravenous sharks to the slaughter. Abysmal shapes. Long and fat,
like sinister submarines, riddled with con towers, radar dishes and
stealth cannons.
The first ion blasts struck at the rebel vanguard in sprays of
supercharged metal. Ships exploded, debris scattered in all
directions.
The rebel ships barely dodged the first assault. Through the
ocean of flotsam they weaved and wandered, avoiding the next
wave of fire, heading at 90 degree angles up and away from the
confusing swarm of ships and fire traces. These were movements
that confounded the imperial guard.
The rebels targeted vulnerable areas on the approaching fleet.
The first battalion of flagships caught fire and dipped out of
formation.
Caspra gritted his teeth. His own maniacal grin shone through
any doubts he had.

“Bring it on bitches.” He jammed the XT16’s thrust to max
while Dell readied his weapons.
A little voice chimed in the back of his head. This is exactly
what they want, Caspra. Take the higher road. Walk way. Live
another day, fight a better fight.
He paid little heed to such voices. He had only to think of
Jessen lying lifeless on the cold concrete in the Vx depot, brave
Truce riddled with energy blasts...all the other innocents these
psychopaths would turn into societal zombies with their satanic
nanotech and visions of world supremacy.
The fight was in Caspra’s face. Not his to choose to walk away
from. He knew he was a pawn in a game of chess much larger than
himself...so it always had been throughout the ages.
And so he would fight, and these evil bastards could all fuck
themselves!
***
Thanks for reading!
If you like epic space adventure, check out these gritty, far
future boxsets:
STARSHIP ROGUE, innersky.ca/thetis3
ALIEN ALLIANCE, innersky.ca/dimzone
Read all of Chris’s free books here:
innersky.ca/books
Excerpt from STARSHIP ROGUE:
Wandering, wandering…way back in the mists of time I
walked the starry mile, across a lightstorm of shattered dreams, a
galaxy of endless possibilities, wondering what it would be like to
fly a starship. An X-class starship. Well, I wasn’t flying one of
those now, but I was certainly captain of a dingy VH3 maintenance
craft, out in Veglos sector. Wow, Rusco, you’re a real top gun.
Gonna pin a medal on that chest myself.

Marty, my partner in crime, a short, heavy-boned bully with
fleshy lips and swarthy complexion, was acting navigator. We were
off to heist a bunch of beryl on Thetis Station.
Why beryl? The heart of the Varwol space drive, crystal
beyond value.
Yet this sector was no safe zone for old men, as near inside
enemy territory as could be. A cesspool of warlords, cons, thieves,
murderers, creepo gangsters, come to scavenge anything and
everything, using Skgurian raiders, those mutant cannibals, as
muscle, every low life imaginable.
The free sectors had gone to shit—as had most of the rest of
the colonized worlds—except some notable planets fighting for
and maintaining their independence, but those were fast falling to
scumbag warlords. Marty was a real warthog today—jittery and
curmudgeon material, riding my ass about every detail. He’d been
cracked high on Myscol, just a few hours ago. Still running
paranoid. I told him not to gulp down so much but he patted me on
the back a little too hard and flashed me his fox-like grin, “Relax,
Rusco. You always worry too much. I need that fix to set my aging
nerves straight.”
Too many schemes gone bad lately. And Marty had crossed
from irritant to pain in the ass.
“When we going to make our approach? How we know they’re
going to buy it?”
“Everything’s in order, Marty, relax.”
Gras, our shaven-headed pilot, snuffled and cast him a
disgruntled glance. “Yeah, muzzle it. You’re going to jinx this
whole mission.”
“Yeah, well that blip on our holo-radar is not just a figment of
my imagination.” Marty waved a chunky finger. “Check it out.”
I scanned the holo grid and swung my gaze about. “Just one of
Sharki’s patrols. We’re all good. The ship is lock tight, drive
signatures in order, maintenance logs in place. Our two birds here
can’t squawk either.” I motioned to the two trussed-up bodies,
backs huddled against the console.
Marty grumbled and let his fingers crawl over the nav pad.
Timing? Fate? Luck of the draw? To fly a stolen craft with
kidnapped crew into the hornets’ nest meant a lot of shit-feathers
were going to fly. Anything else was just lies.

That cautionary voice went off in my head like a dull
schoolbell: Commander Dakker’s last commendation before I went
completely rogue, “I’m hiring you, Rusco, because you’ve done
good work in the past. Keep my product out of the hyena’s grip.
Don’t mess up.”
Well, I messed up, and here I was on a thieves’ run to hijack
some high end beryl out from under some serious scumbags’
noses. Give me an A for Audacity.
So, life had taken a plunge since I’d lost Dakker’s commission
and inevitably turned to vice. But in the long run I was just
following my path, wasn’t I? Whatever destined path that was.
Some middling success out in Ganymede had stoked my fires,
gained me a bit of confidence and ready cash. I hoped I could
make this heist work, that there was some method in the madness.
But unexpected upturn plus confidence can set one flat on his ass.
That’s the end of the excerpt. Read the rest of Starship Rogue at
innersky.ca/thetis3

